Enhance reCAPTCHA documentation to include support for reCAPTCHA Enterprise (#787)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/user-auth/recaptcha.mdx

**Must be called before `setConfig`** if the endpoint differs from the default.

#### Usage

```javascript
import * as reCAPTCHA from '@dropins/tools/recaptcha.js';

reCAPTCHA.setEndpoint('https://www.example.com/graphql');
```

### setConfig

Fetches the reCAPTCHA configuration from Commerce via the [`recaptchaFormConfig`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/store/queries/recaptcha-form-config/) GraphQL endpoint and stores the normalized result in `sessionStorage`. The module queries all known form types in a single request and determines the reCAPTCHA type (v3 or Enterprise) automatically.

**Must be called before `initReCaptcha` and `verifyReCaptcha`.**

#### Parameters

| Parameter    | Type               | Description                                                                                                                              |
| ------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `configList` | `PropsFormTypes[]` | Optional. Array of `{ badgeId: string }` objects specifying additional DOM element IDs where inline reCAPTCHA badges should be rendered. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `configList` | `PropsFormTypes[]` | Optional. Array of `{ badgeId: string }` objects specifying additional DOM element IDs where inline `reCAPTCHA` badges should be rendered. |
```

import Task from '@components/Task.astro';
import Screenshot from '@components/Screenshot.astro';

> The reCAPTCHA module enables reCAPTCHA protection, which is natively supported by Adobe Commerce. It supports both **reCAPTCHA v3 Invisible** and **reCAPTCHA Enterprise**. The module automatically detects which type is configured in Commerce Admin and loads the appropriate script and API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `reCAPTCHA` module enables `reCAPTCHA` protection, which is natively supported by Adobe Commerce. It supports both **reCAPTCHA v3 Invisible** and **reCAPTCHA Enterprise**. The module automatically detects the configured type in Commerce Admin and loads the appropriate script and API.
```

> The module also provides an API allowing merchants to integrate reCAPTCHA protection into custom form implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module also provides an API that allows merchants to integrate `reCAPTCHA` protection into custom form implementations.
```

[Google reCAPTCHA](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce-admin/systems/security/captcha/security-google-recaptcha) in the _Admin Systems Guide_ describes how to configure Adobe Commerce.

:::note[Using the Commerce Boilerplate?]

> The reCAPTCHA module is implemented in the [Commerce Boilerplate](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/developer/commerce/storefront/get-started/boilerplate-project/) within the `/scripts/initializers/index.js` file. The boilerplate calls `setEndpoint`, `enableLogger`, and `setConfig` during app initialization. If your form is part of a drop-in component, reCAPTCHA is already configured — you only need to call `initReCaptcha` and `verifyReCaptcha` in your form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `reCAPTCHA` module is implemented in the [Commerce Boilerplate](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/developer/commerce/storefront/get-started/boilerplate-project/) within the `/scripts/initializers/index.js` file. The boilerplate calls `setEndpoint`, `enableLogger`, and `setConfig` during app initialization. If your form is part of a drop-in component, `reCAPTCHA` is already configured. You only need to call `initReCaptcha` and `verifyReCaptcha` in your form.
```

:::

:::caution[Mixed reCAPTCHA types]

> All forms must use the same reCAPTCHA type (all v3 or all Enterprise). If Commerce Admin has some forms configured with v3 and others with Enterprise, the module will log a warning and **disable reCAPTCHA entirely**. Update your Commerce Admin configuration so all forms use the same type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All forms must use the same reCAPTCHA type, either all v3 or all Enterprise. If the Commerce Admin configuration has some forms configured with v3 and others with Enterprise, the module will log a warning and **disable reCAPTCHA entirely**. Update your Commerce Admin configuration so all forms use the same type.
```

:::

<Tasks>

## Integration

> To integrate reCAPTCHA, follow these steps. **Calling order matters** — each step depends on the previous one completing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integrate the `reCAPTCHA` module, follow these steps. **The calling order matters** because each step depends on completing the previous step.
```

<Steps>

1. **Set the endpoint and fetch configuration.**

>    Call `setEndpoint` (if needed) and `setConfig` during app initialization. `setConfig` fetches the reCAPTCHA configuration from Commerce via the `recaptchaFormConfig` GraphQL endpoint and stores it in `sessionStorage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Call `setEndpoint` (if needed) and `setConfig` during app initialization. `setConfig` fetches the reCAPTCHA configuration from Commerce via the `recaptchaFormConfig` GraphQL endpoint, then stores it in `sessionStorage`.
```

   ```javascript
   import * as reCAPTCHA from '@dropins/tools/recaptcha.js';

   reCAPTCHA.setEndpoint('https://www.example.com/graphql');
   await reCAPTCHA.setConfig();
   ```

> 2. **Initialize reCAPTCHA on pages with protected forms.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Initialize `reCAPTCHA` on pages with protected forms.**
```

>    Call `initReCaptcha` to load the Google reCAPTCHA script and render badges. Do **not** call this at the top level of the application — call it only on pages that have forms protected by reCAPTCHA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Call `initReCaptcha` to load the Google `reCAPTCHA` script and render badges. Do **not** call this at the top level of the application. Call it only on pages that have forms protected by `reCAPTCHA`.
```

   ```javascript
   await reCAPTCHA.initReCaptcha();
   ```

3. **Get a token on form submission.**

   Call `verifyReCaptcha` when the user submits the form. Pass the returned token in the `X-ReCaptcha` header.

   ```javascript
   const token = await reCAPTCHA.verifyReCaptcha();
   if (token) {
     fetchGraphQlApi.setFetchGraphQlHeader('X-ReCaptcha', token);
   }
   // Proceed with the GraphQL mutation
   ```

4. **Commerce validates the token.** If validation fails, Commerce returns an error.

</Steps>

</Tasks>

### Flow for forms covered by Adobe Commerce natively

> Use the following workflow for standard Adobe Commerce integrations (login, registration, contact, etc.):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following workflow for standard Adobe Commerce integrations (login, registration, contact, and so on):
```

<Steps>

> 1.  Call `verifyReCaptcha` to retrieve the reCAPTCHA token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Call `verifyReCaptcha` to retrieve the `reCAPTCHA` token.
```

1.  Set the token in the `X-ReCaptcha` header.
1.  Send the GraphQL mutation. Commerce validates the token server-side and returns an error if validation fails.

</Steps>

### Flow for custom form integrations

> For custom forms not natively covered by Commerce, you need to add an inline badge container and call `setConfig` with your badge ID. This is safe to call even if the global initializer has already run — the fetch uses `force-cache` and the badge entry is additive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For custom forms not natively covered by Commerce, you need to add an inline badge container and call `setConfig` with your badge ID. `setConfig` is safe to call even if the global initializer has already run. The fetch uses `force-cache` and the badge entry is additive.
```

```javascript
import * as reCAPTCHA from '@dropins/tools/recaptcha.js';
import { CORE_FETCH_GRAPHQL } from '../../scripts/commerce.js';

// Create a badge container in your form
const badgeId = 'my-custom-form-badge';
const badge = document.createElement('div');
badge.id = badgeId;
form.appendChild(badge);

// Configure and initialize
reCAPTCHA.setEndpoint(CORE_FETCH_GRAPHQL);
await reCAPTCHA.setConfig([{ badgeId }]);
await reCAPTCHA.initReCaptcha(0); // 0ms delay if already in an idle callback

// On submit
const token = await reCAPTCHA.verifyReCaptcha();
```

:::tip

> The `configList` parameter in `setConfig` does **not** override or filter backend configuration. It only adds extra DOM containers for inline badge rendering. The backend determines which forms are enabled and which reCAPTCHA type is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `configList` parameter in `setConfig` does **not** override or filter the backend configuration. It only adds extra DOM containers for inline badge rendering. The backend determines which forms are enabled and which `reCAPTCHA` type (v3 or Enterprise) is used.
```

:::

## reCAPTCHA API

> The reCAPTCHA package exposes the following APIs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `reCAPTCHA` package exposes the following APIs:
```

- `setEndpoint`
- `setConfig`
- `initReCaptcha`
- `verifyReCaptcha`
- `enableLogger`

### setEndpoint

> Sets the GraphQL endpoint the module uses to fetch configuration. Optional if reCAPTCHA uses the same endpoint as the rest of the application — it inherits from the `fetch-graphql` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets the GraphQL endpoint that the module uses to fetch the the configuration. This is optional if `reCAPTCHA` uses the same endpoint used by the rest of the application. It inherits from the `fetch-graphql` package.
```

**Must be called before `setConfig`** if the endpoint differs from the default.

#### Usage

```javascript
import * as reCAPTCHA from '@dropins/tools/recaptcha.js';

reCAPTCHA.setEndpoint('https://www.example.com/graphql');
```

### setConfig

> Fetches the reCAPTCHA configuration from Commerce via the [`recaptchaFormConfig`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/store/queries/recaptcha-form-config/) GraphQL endpoint and stores the normalized result in `sessionStorage`. The module queries all known form types in a single request and determines the reCAPTCHA type (v3 or Enterprise) automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetches the `reCAPTCHA` configuration from Commerce via the [`recaptchaFormConfig`](https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/schema/store/queries/recaptcha-form-config/) GraphQL endpoint,  then stores the normalized result in `sessionStorage`. The module queries all known form types in a single request and determines the `reCAPTCHA` type (v3 or Enterprise) automatically.
```

**Must be called before `initReCaptcha` and `verifyReCaptcha`.**

#### Parameters

| Parameter    | Type               | Description                                                                                                                              |
| ------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `configList` | `PropsFormTypes[]` | Optional. Array of `{ badgeId: string }` objects specifying additional DOM element IDs where inline reCAPTCHA badges should be rendered. |

#### Usage

> Call without parameters for standard Commerce forms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example calls the `setConfig` function without parameters for standard Commerce forms:
```

```javascript
import * as reCAPTCHA from '@dropins/tools/recaptcha.js';

await reCAPTCHA.setConfig();
```

> Pass a `configList` to add inline badge containers for custom forms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now pass a `configList` to add inline badge containers for custom forms:
```

```javascript
await reCAPTCHA.setConfig([{ badgeId: 'my-form-badge' }]);
```

> The `configList` entries are **additive** — they add extra badge containers alongside the forms returned by the backend. They do not filter, restrict, or override which forms are enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `configList` entries are **additive**. This example shows how to add extra badge containers to the forms returned by the backend. They do not filter, restrict, or override which forms are enabled.
```

### initReCaptcha

> Loads the Google reCAPTCHA script and initializes badges. The module automatically selects the correct script based on the configured reCAPTCHA type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function loads the Google `reCAPTCHA` script and initializes badges. The module automatically selects the correct script based on the configured `reCAPTCHA` type:
```

- **v3**: `https://www.google.com/recaptcha/api.js`
- **Enterprise**: `https://www.google.com/recaptcha/enterprise.js`

> **Must be called after `setConfig`.** Call this on pages with protected forms, not globally — otherwise reCAPTCHA scripts load on every page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This function must be called after calling `setConfig`.** Call `initReCaptcha` on pages with protected forms, not globally. Otherwise, the reCAPTCHA scripts load on every page.
```

#### Parameters

| Parameter         | Type     | Default | Description                                                                                                                              |
| ----------------- | -------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `lazyLoadTimeout` | `number` | `3000`  | Delay in milliseconds before loading the script. Use `0` when calling from an idle callback or when the form is already in the viewport. |

#### Usage

```javascript
import * as reCAPTCHA from '@dropins/tools/recaptcha.js';

// Default: 3-second lazy load delay
await reCAPTCHA.initReCaptcha();

// No delay (e.g., inside requestIdleCallback)
await reCAPTCHA.initReCaptcha(0);
```

### verifyReCaptcha

> Retrieves a reCAPTCHA token via the Google API. For Enterprise, uses `grecaptcha.enterprise.execute()`; for v3, uses `grecaptcha.execute()`. Returns `undefined` if reCAPTCHA is not enabled, allowing forms to proceed without protection when reCAPTCHA is disabled in Commerce Admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves a `reCAPTCHA` token via the Google API. The Enterprise type uses `grecaptcha.enterprise.execute()`. The v3 type uses `grecaptcha.execute()`. If `reCAPTCHA` is disabled in the Commerce Admin, the function returns `undefined`, allowing forms to proceed without protection.
```

**Must be called after `setConfig` and `initReCaptcha`.**

#### Usage

> For forms covered by native Adobe Commerce functionality, pass the token as an `X-ReCaptcha` header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For forms supported by native Adobe Commerce functionality, pass the token as an `X-ReCaptcha` header:
```

```javascript
import * as reCAPTCHA from '@dropins/tools/recaptcha.js';

const token = await reCAPTCHA.verifyReCaptcha();
if (token) {
  fetchGraphQlApi.setFetchGraphQlHeader('X-ReCaptcha', token);
}
// Proceed with mutation — Commerce validates the token server-side
```

> For custom implementations, validate the token on the server side or client side according to your implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For custom forms, validate the token on the server side or client side according to your implementation.
```

### enableLogger

> Enables `[ReCaptcha]`-prefixed debug logging to the browser console. Logs trace the full lifecycle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enables `[ReCaptcha]`-prefixed debug-logging in the browser console. The logs trace the full lifecycle for development and debugging:
```

- Config fetch and normalization (which forms are enabled, which type is detected)
- Forms skipped due to missing `website_key`
- Mixed-type warnings
- Script loading URL
- Badge rendering per form
- Token requests and results

> Intended for development and debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Usage

```javascript
import * as reCAPTCHA from '@dropins/tools/recaptcha.js';

reCAPTCHA.enableLogger(true);
```

## Limitations

> - **Mixed reCAPTCHA types are not supported.** If Commerce Admin configures some forms with v3 and others with Enterprise, the module disables reCAPTCHA entirely and logs a warning. All forms must use the same type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Mixed `reCAPTCHA` types are not supported.** If you configure the Commerce Admin with both v3 and Enterprise types, the module disables reCAPTCHA entirely and logs a warning. All forms must use the same type.
```

> - **Per-form type support is planned** for a future release, allowing v3 on some forms and Enterprise on others simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Per-form type support is planned** for a future release. This will allow the v3 type on some forms and the Enterprise type on others,  simultaneously.
```
